Dec 10, 2019

Attendees

Philipp Dunkel (PDL)
Ujjwal Sharma (USA)
Jason Williams (JWS)
Shane Carr (SFC)
Tara Z Manicsic (new: TZM)
Caio Lima (CLA)
Richard Gibson (RGN)

PDL: Everyone should take a look at [#287](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/pull/287) if you're not familiar with it, i am about to merge it now.

PDL: We don't want to talk about it now but we should also take a look at [#292](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/292)

PDL: What is next on our timeline?

- SFC: will create PR for table of pros and cons of default calendar options

- USA: next step is clean up spec

- PDL: mine is add calendar support to the polyfill

- JWS and TZM: start the next step of reviews?

RGN: I think that's a bit premature because the cookbook that was requested is still empty. We don't know if the API is desired because it hasn't been applied to those real world examples.

Cookbook: [#240](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-temporal/issues/240)

PDL: What do you think the next steps should be? creating the cookbook?

RGN: I think so.

RGN: it guides the design questions, rather than follow them.

PDL: Jase, can you fill in the cookbook?

JSW: Yeah, sounds good

New AI for JWS and TZM: fill in the cookbook examples.

SFC: Let's make a new top-level directory called "examples".

PDL: Create a JavaScript file for each cookbook recipe in the examples directory.  I suggest making a PR for each recipe, so that we can have a discussion about each one.

PDL: I think the realistic timeline is we're stable with the issues resolved and spec written, and we can point committee members and delegates at it.  Iâ€™ll do an update presentation on Feb TC39 meeting and ask for stage advancement on April.

